# TempHyper

## Introduction

This custom code performs the simulations for the paper: **Strategy evolution on temporal hypergraphs**, by *Xiaochen Wang*, *Lei Zhou*, *Alex McAvoy*, *Zhenglong Tian* and *Aming Li*. 

The code applies to the simulation in Fig 2-6 in the main text.

## Included files

#### Monte Carlo simulations
- *Simulation.c*: The main program of the Monte Carlo simulation used in the paper. This is a C language file. Please run it using the appropriate program.

- *HK*: This is an example of temporal hypergraphs generated by the Holme-Kim model (see the main text Fig.~2). Each row represents a node, and each column represents a hyperedge. The number in each element indicates which subhypergraph the hyperedge appears in. Each file is named as $p$_$\tau$.txt, where $p$ is the probability for links to be activated, and $\tau$ is the time interval.

- *UniformRing*: This is an example of static hypergraphs generated by the Uniform Ring model (see the Supplementary Information). Each row represents a node, and each column represents a hyperedge. Each file is named as uniform_ring\_$n$\_$N$\_$L$.txt, where $n$ is the hyperedge size, $N$ is the population size, and $L$ is the number of hyperedges.

#### Others

- *README.MD*: This file 


## Dependencies:

- GCC (version 8.1.0) or compatible C compiler
- MinGW-W64 (for Windows users)
- Standard C libraries 
- Microsoft Windows 11

## Running the software

All files should be put in the same folder. 
The program can perform simulations both under the pairwise and group social dilemmas. Please run it using the appropriate program. To compile and run the program,
follow these steps:
 
1. Open your terminal or command prompt.
2. Navigate to the directory containing this file.
3. Compile the program using GCC:
 *      gcc Simulation.c -o Simulation.exe
4. Run the executable:
 *      Simulation.exe  


This program generates an output file, the datafile name can be defined in the code. 
Here is a demo for the output:
0.780000, 0.198000
0.820000, 0.280000
0.860000, 0.366000
0.900000, 0.424000
0.940000, 0.475000
0.980000, 0.530000
1.020000, 0.581000
1.060000, 0.601000
1.100000, 0.645000

The items stands for: $r$, Frequency of cooperators, $f_C$.

It might take 1-10 hours to get the results, depending on the hypergraph datasets.

## License

MIT License
